2024학년도 1학기 

( 1 )학년  (  영어  )과 기말고사 문제지


◑ 총( 12 )쪽, 선택형( 24 )문항, 서답형( 5 )문항
◑ 서답(서술) 답안 작성 : 별도의 답안지
◑ 고사반영 비율 : 중간고사( 30 )%, 기말고사( 30 )%,  수행평가( 40 )% 

<표>



<표>



<그림>
 상 산 고 등 학 교 
  영어과  제 1학기  기말고사 문제지 
 제 1 학년 전체  2024년 7월 4일  1교시                                                             



본 시험문제의 저작권은 상산고등학교에 있습니다. 무단 전송· 복제, 배포 시 저작권법에 의거 처벌될 수 있습니다.[ 12 -  ]
          
<그림>

1. 다음 글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은? [2.5점]
  A lot of attention has been paid in recent years to the dangers of relying on fossil fuels. For this reason, the use of alternatives to coal, oil, and gas is becoming more and more common. Alternative energy sources can be recovered or produced without emitting carbon dioxide and contributing to global warming. They can decrease air pollution, which is better for our health, as it diminishes instances of asthma. They are often sustainable resources as well, which means they will not get used up. There are many examples of alternative energy sources. A particular type of alternative energy may work the best for a particular region. The other side of this is that some of these energy sources may not be available at all to people in certain places because of environmental limitations. Alternative energy production is certainly essential to avoid a catastrophic depletion of vital natural resources in the future, but it can be expensive and time-consuming to install the required elements. Some developing areas of the world may simply be unable to pay for it. In other places, corporations and taxpayers may be resistant to it. 

①Alternative Energy Never Wears Off: Its Infinite Potential
②The Fault in Our Ignorance: Ways to Revive Renewable Energy
③Two Sides of Alternative Energy: Its Potential and Limitations
④What Brings Us Back to Fossil Fuels: The Scarcity of Resources
⑤Economic Challenges: Alternative Energy Threats Developing nations






2. 다음 글의 내용과 일치하지 않는 것은? [3.1점]
  We must all learn to use fewer natural resources on a day-to-day basis. We can start by reducing the number of electrical items we leave plugged in, using less water, and avoiding motorized transportation. Many cities are instigating carbon emissions taxes, which is a step in the right direction. In our homes, we can use only energy-saving light bulbs and install water meters. Parents need to train children from an early age to turn off lights that they are not using. It is sometimes difficult to persuade people to use less energy and water, or to eat less food, but an effective way to motivate people to adopt less-wasteful practices is to make these essential commodities much more expensive. 
  It is often possible to restore old, unwanted objects to a state in which they can be used again. Glass bottles can be cleaned and reused without having to be broken and remade. Reusing things is a very efficient process and consumes less energy than recycling. It does, however, often require a lot of expensive organization and administration. There are also concerns to address regarding reused medical equipment and food-storage items, for example, because of safety and hygiene issues. Still, the benefits of reusing items are clear, bigger than its drawbacks. 
  Most of us know that materials such as paper and plastic can be recycled into new products. This process uses less energy and emits fewer greenhouse gases than producing articles from raw materials. Yes, sorting through used materials before recycling them is a dirty and difficult job, and breaking up electronic equipment to recycle rare metals is time-consuming and potentially dangerous. But provided we understand the dangers involved, the necessity of recycling on a community scale is evident.

①There are many actions we can take to use fewer natural resources on a daily basis from unplugging the electrical devices to steering clear of motorized transportation.
② By raising the price of necessities like food, water, and electricity, we may induce people who are resistant to cutting back on their consumption to adopt less-wasteful habits.
③ The benefits of reusing things outweigh its drawbacks, though the reusing process is costly and there are safety and hygiene issues regarding reusing medical or food-storage items.
④ Recycling materials like paper and plastics is more energy-saving and releases fewer green house gases than manufacturing items from scratch.
⑤ Considering the potential risks of sorting through used materials, we should stay resistant to disassembling electronic equipment for extracting rare metals.




[다음장 계속]
3. 다음 글에서 대답을 찾을 수 없는 질문을 고르면? [3.1점]
  In order to mitigate the problems that drought can bring, there are several short- and long-term strategies that can be adopted. A range of policies designed to combat these problems exists at local, national, and international levels. As well as general issues related to this topic, there are specific recommendations that can be made in the case of Kenya, where drought has been a major problem in recent years.
  Droughts frequently put millions of people at risk of food insecurity in central Kenya. The area is so dry that it cannot support agricultural crops. There are few permanent rivers, and the seasonal waterways caused by flood waters in the rainy months disrupt transportation across the region. The population of this area mainly live off their cattle. Droughts can quickly kill off their animals, which eliminates their main source of income. Finally, because the area is so vast, infrastructure is under-developed, meaning that access to the population is difficult.

①What is identified as the most essential response once drought strikes in central Kenya?
②At which levels do policies designed to combat drought problems exist?
③What are the consequences of droughts in central Kenya?
④How does the reliance on cattle contribute to the vulnerability of the population in Kenya during droughts?
⑤Why is the access to the population in Kenya during drought emergencies challenging?





4. 다음 글의 내용과 일치하지 않는 것은? [3.1점]
  The reason for creating a building in the first place – its use – is clearly very important. When building an airport terminal, for example, you need to think of the needs of passengers as well as planes. Passengers want to get to their plane as quickly as they can, and planes need to be parked in a way that maximizes their ease of use. As such, many airport terminals have a circular shape with satellite areas. Residential homes need to have enough space for a family, art galleries need wall space to show pictures, and factories need to produce goods as efficiently as possible. Each type of building has a different function, and, therefore, it has a different form.
  In theory, there seems to be no reason why architecture cannot be both functional and beautiful. Yet in practice, this can cause problems. The Modern International style of the 1920s and 1930s, an example of which is the Guggenheim Museum in New York, was supposed to combine beauty with function. Many consider the museum's white spiral ramp beautiful, but there have been complaints that it is impractical, as it is difficult to stand back to view the art. Also, the ramp is so narrow that it can become overcrowded. The Farnsworth House by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe is another icon of beautiful design that demonstrates the idea that "less is more." However, critics have attacked it for a lack of privacy because of the huge glass windows. It also has a leaky flat roof and has been repeatedly flooded. It seems that even these two celebrated designs have problems with functionality. 

①Airport terminals often have a circular design with satellite areas to meet the needs of passengers for quick access to planes and to enhance user convenience of planes.
②The architecture of residential houses, art galleries, and factories is influenced by their specific functions, such as providing living space, displaying art, and ensuring efficient production, respectively.
③Though the narrow white spiral ramp of the Guggenheim Museum makes it difficult for visitors to appreciate the art from a distance and can become congested, its functionality is praised by many people.
④The Farnsworth House by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, known for its "less is more" design, faces criticisms for its lack of privacy, leaky roof, and vulnerability to flooding.
⑤ The goal of creating designs that are both aesthetically pleasing and functionally effective is often challenged by practical considerations, as seen with the Guggenheim Museum and the Farnsworth House.










[뒷면 계속]
[5, 서답형1] 다음 글을 읽고, 물음에 답하시오.
  When drought is forecast in central Kenya, employing short-term preventive measures and preparing quick responses are necessary for minimizing casualties. One such measure is recycling water. Recycled water, from the washing of clothes for example, can be given to animals and used to irrigate land. A program of this kind can be achieved in two to three months. To do this on a regional level in central Kenya would only cost about $100,000 per year, which is relatively cost-effective. This water cannot be drunk by people, however. Once drought strikes, the most important response is to transport bottles of drinking water into the drought area. This can be done quickly (within one week), but it is quite expensive. Kenya has 47 million people, and to import bottled water for even a quarter of the population could cost as much as $10 million per year.
  The urgent action of Kenya is to prepare long-term solutions to manage the recurring drought. On a micro-scale, the construction of wells can help provide more water at a cost of about $500,000. Once the funding is in place, this can be done immediately. On a wider scale, desalination plants, which remove salt from sea water, also make drinking water available, but at a much higher cost of about seven to ten million dollars. These plants can take years to construct before they are running efficiently ― perhaps as long as five years. Additionally, harvesting rainwater lets communities collect and store any rain that does fall. This is less costly, but it depends on the rainfall in the area. Sometimes Kenyans have to wait months for a rainfall. 
















5. 다음은 아래 그래프에 나타난 전략 [A]-[E]의 시간과 비용 측면을 각각 설명한 내용이다. 본문 내용과 일치하지 않는 것은? [3.5점]

<그림>


①[A] is to transport drinking water bottles into the drought area. Though it can be completed in a week, it can cost as much as $10 million per year even when covering only 25% of the population.
② [B] is recycling water for animals and land irrigation. Since it only costs roughly $100,000 per year on a regional basis and can be accomplished within two or three months, it is quite cost-effective.
③ [C] is constructing desalination plants. It takes as long as five years to build and ensure that they run efficiently. It costs about seven to ten million dollars.
④[D] is to build wells to help provide more water. This can cost about $500,000 and be completed as soon as the funding is available, far more expensive than [C].
⑤ [E] is to harvest rainwater. Collecting and storing any falling rain by communities is less costly but since its success is highly dependent on how much rain falls into the area, sometimes people have to wait long for the rain.



[서답형1 (서술)] 윗 글에서는 케냐의 가뭄 문제에 대응하기 위해 단기 전략과 장기 전략이 필요한 이유를 설명하고 있다. 각각의 이유에 대해 본문에서 찾아 우리말로 작성하시오. [8점, 각 4점]
(답안지에는 빈칸 내용만 적을 것)

답: (1) 단기 전략이 필요한 이유는                             
   (2) 장기 전략이 필요한 이유는                             


[다음장 계속]
6. 밑줄 친 plane hijackers of the future may not even be on board가 다음 글에서 의미하는 바로 가장 적절한 것은? [2.9점]

 Cyber attacks on air traffic control systems have become a leading security concern. The federal government released a report in 2009 stating that the nation’s air traffic control system is vulnerable to a cyber attack that could interrupt communication with pilots and alter the flight information used to separate aircraft as they approach an airport. The report found numerous security problems in airline computer systems, including easy­to­crack passwords and unencrypted file folders, issues that could give invaders easy access. A cyber attack on air traffic has the potential to kill many people and could cripple the country’s entire airline industry. Tightening airline computer security could be even more important than conducting security screenings of passengers, because in an increasingly cyber­oriented world, plane hijackers of the future may not even be on board. 

① With air traffic control systems on board, passengers will not be vulnerable to the threat of online hijackers.
② More developed security screenings of passengers will prevent any cyber threat from recurring.
③Remote cyber attackers could manipulate a plane's systems from anywhere, making actual presence on the airplane unnecessary for executing a hijack.
④Once cybercriminals gain control of an aircraft, passengers on board and even people not present on a plane can be victims of great danger.
⑤ As airline computer security systems could foresee potential future plane hijackers, cyber invasion leaves no concern behind.













[7-8] 다음 글의 밑줄 친 부분 중, 어법상 틀린 것은? 
7. [3.1점]
  Growing crops forced people ①to stay in one place. Hunter-gatherers typically moved around frequently, and they had to be able to carry all their possessions with them every time they ②moved.In particular, mothers had to carry their young children.As a result, hunter-gatherer mothers could have only one baby every four years or so, spacing their births. Thus, never did they ③have to carry more than one child at a time.Farmers, on the other hand, could live in the same place year after year and did not have to worry about transporting young children long distances.Societies that settled down in one place were able to shorten their birth intervals from four years to about two.This meant that each woman could have more children than her hunter-gatherer counterpart ④were, which in turn resulted in rapid population growth among farming communities.An increased population was actually an advantage to ⑤growing agricultural societies, because farming required large amounts of human labor. 








8. [2.6점]
  The irony of early democracy in Europe is that it thrived and prospered precisely because European rulers for a very long time ① were remarkably weak.For more than a millennium after the fall of Rome, European rulers lacked the ability to assess ②what their people were producing and to levy substantial taxes based on this. The most striking way to illustrate European weakness is showing ③how little revenue they collected.Europeans would eventually develop strong systems of revenue collection, but it took them an awfully long time ④do so.In medieval times, and for part of the early modern era, Chinese emperors and Muslim caliphs were able to extract ⑤much more of economic production than any European ruler with the exception of small city­states.
   *levy: 부과하다 **caliph: 칼리프(과거 이슬람 국가의 통치자)


[뒷면 계속]
[9-11] 다음 글의 밑줄 친 부분 중, 문맥상 낱말의 쓰임이 적절하지 않은 것은? 

9. [2.9점]  
 The soil of a farm field is forced to be the ①optimal environment for monoculture growth. This is achieved by  adding nutrients in the form of fertilizer and water by way of irrigation. During the last fifty years, engineers and crop scientists have helped farmers become much more ②successful at supplying exactly the right amount of both. World usage of fertilizer has tripled since 1969, and the global capacity for irrigation has almost doubled; we are feeding and watering our fields ③more than ever, and our crops are loving it. Unfortunately, these luxurious conditions have also ④discouraged certain agricultural undesirables. Because farm fields are loaded with nutrients and water relative to the natural land that surrounds them, they are ⑤desired as luxury real estate by every random weed in the area. 




10. [2.6점]
 In response to human-like care robots, critics might charge that human-robot interactions create a moral ①hazard for dementia patients. Even if deception is sometimes allowed when it serves worthy goals, should it be allowed for ②vulnerable users? Just as children on the autism spectrum with robot companions might be easily fooled into thinking of robots as friends, older adults with cognitive deficits might be. According to Alexis Elder, a professor at UMD, robots are false friends, inferior to true friendship. Reasoning along similar lines, John Sullins, a professor at Sonoma State University, holds that robots should “remain iconic or cartoonish so that they are easily ③distinguished as synthetic even by unsophisticated users.” At least then no one is fooled. Making robots clearly fake also ④promotes the so-called “uncanny valley,” where robots are perceived as scary because they so closely resemble us, but not quite. Other critics of robot deception argue that when care recipients are deceived into thinking that robots care, this crosses a line and ⑤violates human dignity.





11. [2.6점]  
  The hunter­gatherer lifestyle, which can be described as “natural” to human beings, appears to have had ①little to recommend it. Examination of human remains from early hunter­gatherer societies has suggested that our ancestors enjoyed abundant food, obtainable without excessive effort, and suffered very ②few diseases. If this is true, it is not ③clear why so many humans settled in permanent villages and developed agriculture, growing crops and domesticating animals: cultivating fields was hard work, and it was in farming villages that epidemic diseases first took root. Whatever its immediate effect on the lives of humans, the development of settlements and agriculture undoubtedly led to an ④increase in population density. This period, known as the New Stone Age, was a major turning point in human development, ⑤bringing about the growth of the first towns and cities, and eventually leading to settled “civilizations.”





12. 다음 글에서 전체 흐름과 관계 없는 문장은? [2.5점]
  Over the last several decades, scholars have developed standards for how best to create, organize, present, and preserve digital information for future generations. ①What has remained neglected for the most part, however, are the needs of people with disabilities. ②As a result, many of the otherwise most valuable digital resources are useless for people who are deaf or hard of hearing, as well as for people who are blind, have low vision, or have difficulty distinguishing particular colors. ③While professionals working in educational technology and commercial web design have made significant progress in meeting the needs of such users, some scholars creating digital projects all too often fail to take these needs into account. ④What also matters is the historical, social, and cultural context within which technologies operate and this is the reason why we should not incorporate the needs of every user. ⑤This situation would be much improved if more projects embraced the idea that we should always keep the largest possible audience in mind as we make design decisions, ensuring that our final product serves the needs of those with disabilities as well as those without.

[다음장 계속]
[13-16] 다음 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것을 고르면?
13. [2.6점]
  Spending time as children allows animals to learn about their environment. Without childhood, animals must rely more fully on hardware, and therefore be less flexible. Among migratory bird species, those that are born knowing how, when, and where to migrate — those that are migrating entirely with instructions they were born with — sometimes have very inefficient migration routes. These birds, born knowing how to migrate, don’t adjust easily. So when lakes dry up, forest becomes farmland, or climate change pushes breeding grounds farther north, those birds that are born knowing how to migrate keep flying by the old rules and maps. By comparison, birds with the longest childhoods, and those that migrate with their parents, tend to have the most efficient migration routes. Childhood facilitates the passing on of cultural information, and culture can evolve faster than genes. Childhood gives              in a changing world.

① disruption      ② adaptability      ③ insecurity
④ tradition      ⑤ privacy 


14. [2.8점]
  Perhaps, the advent of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in the workplace may bode well for Emotional Intelligence (EI). As AI gains momentum and replaces people in jobs at every level, predictions are, there will be a premium placed on people who have high ability in EI. The emotional messages people send and respond to while interacting are, at this point, far beyond the ability of AI programs to mimic. As we get further into the age of the smart machine, it is likely that sensing and managing emotions will remain one type of intelligence that puzzles AI. This means people and jobs involving EI             . In a survey, almost three out of four executives see EI as a “must­have” skill for the workplace in the future as the automatizing of routine tasks bumps up against the impossibility of creating effective AI for activities that require emotional skill.
* bode: ~의 징조가 되다 ** momentum: 추진력

① are difficult to find in our AI based society
② can be aggravated by the development of AI
③ are secure from being replaced by machines
④ tend to hamper the tasks of automated robots
⑤ will not be sustainable due to their drawbacks
15. [2.8점]
  Problems often arise if an exotic species is suddenly introduced to an ecosystem. Britain’s red and grey squirrels provide a clear example. When the grey arrived from America in the 1870s, both squirrel species competed for the same food and habitat, which put the native red squirrel populations under pressure. The grey                  . It is able, for instance, to eat green acorns, while the red can only digest mature acorns. Within the same area of forest, grey squirrels can destroy the food supply before red squirrels even have a bite. Greys can also live more densely and in varied habitats, so have survived more easily when woodland has been destroyed. As a result, the red squirrel has come close to extinction in England.

① had the edge because it can adapt better
② was successful in building trust with humans
③ could out-think the invaders to their habitat
④ was more sensitive to sticking to its original diet
⑤ made up with their enemy, who is native to the forest

16. [2.7점]
  Robert Blattberg and Steven Hoch noted that, in a changing environment, it is not clear that consistency is always a virtue and that one of the advantages of human judgment is the ability to detect change. Thus, in changing environments,                      . Blattberg and Hoch examined this possibility by having supermarket managers forecast demand for certain products and then creating a composite forecast by averaging these judgments with the forecasts of statistical models based on past data. The logic was that statistical models assume stable conditions and therefore cannot account for the effects on demand of novel events such as actions taken by competitors or the introduction of new products. Humans, however, can incorporate these novel factors in their judgments. The composite ─ or average of human judgments and statistical models ─ proved to be more accurate than either the statistical models or the managers working alone. 
① statistics should be prioritized over subjectivity
② composing texts requires humans’ judgments in the workforce
③ a policy should be enacted to improve the status of managers
④it might be advantageous to separate past from future data
⑤integrating human judgment into statistical models could be beneficial
[뒷면 계속]
17. 글의 흐름으로 보아, 주어진 문장이 들어가기에 가장 적절한 곳을 고르면? [2.5점]

<표>

  The “jolt” of caffeine does wear off. Caffeine is removed from your system by an enzyme within your liver, which gradually degrades it over time. Based in large part on genetics, some people have a more efficient version of the enzyme that degrades caffeine, allowing the liver to rapidly clear it from the bloodstream. ( ① ) These rare individuals can drink an espresso with dinner and fall fast asleep at midnight without a problem. ( ② ) It takes far longer for their system to eliminate the same amount of caffeine. ( ③ ) As a result, they are very sensitive to caffeine’s effects. ( ④ ) One cup of tea or coffee in the morning will last much of the day, and should they have a second cup, even early in the afternoon, they will find it difficult to fall asleep in the evening. ( ⑤ ) Aging also alters the speed of caffeine clearance: the older we are, the longer it takes our brain and body to remove caffeine, and thus the more sensitive we become in later life to caffeine’s sleep­disrupting influence. 
* jolt: 충격 ** enzyme: 효소


18. 다음 글을 읽고, Sylvan Goldman이 쇼핑카트 사용 독려를 이뤄낸 성공요인을 포함하고있지 않은 예시를 고르면? [3.4점] 
  Sylvan Goldman invented the shopping cart and introduced it in his stores in 1937. It was an excellent device that would make it easy for shoppers to buy as much as they wanted without getting tired or seeking others’ help. But Goldman discovered that in spite of his repeated advertisements and explanations, he could not persuade his shoppers to use the wheeled carts. Men were reluctant because they thought they would appear weak if they pushed such carts instead of carrying their shopping. Women wouldn’t touch them because the carts reminded them of baby carriages. It was only a few elderly shoppers who used them. That made the carts even less attractive to the majority of the shoppers. Then Goldman hit upon an idea. He hired several models, men and women, of different ages and asked them to wheel the carts in the store and shop. A young woman employee standing near the entrance told the regular shoppers, ‘Look, everyone is using the carts. Why don’t you?’ That was the turning point. A few shills disguised as regular shoppers easily accomplished what logic, explanations, and advertisements failed to do. Within a few weeks shoppers readily accepted those carts.
①When Apple launched the first iPhone, they strategically placed models and employees using the devices in their stores. By demonstrating how easy and innovative the iPhone was, they attracted customers who wanted to be part of the trend. 
② Lululemon hosts free yoga classes in their stores, with instructors and participants wearing Lululemon clothes. By creating a community around their brand and showing how their products enhance the yoga experience, they encourage attendees to purchase their activewear.
③ Starbucks often features images and videos of people enjoying their coffee in a cozy, social setting. By promoting the idea that Starbucks is a place where people gather to relax and socialize, they attract customers who want to be part of that lifestyle, leading to increased sales.
④ To encourage potential buyers to consider electric vehicles, Tesla offers test drives. By allowing consumers to experience the benefits of Tesla cars firsthand, and seeing others enjoying the test drives, potential customers are more likely to view electric vehicles as a viable option and make a purchase.
⑤ Dyson highlights the technological advancements and superior performance of their vacuum cleaners and other products. This focus on innovation and quality attracts consumers who value cutting-edge technology and high performance.



















[다음장 계속]
19. 다음 글 [A], [B]를 읽고, 글의 내용과 가장 일치하는 것을 고르면? [3.5점]


<표>

<표>

① The passage [A] states that animals that are rewarded for noticing auditory stimuli tend to have smaller auditory centers in their brains compared to those rewarded for visual stimuli.
② In [A], brain scans have revealed that violinists show remarkable growth in the regions of their cortex that control their right hand. It is due to their practice routines of fingering the strings accurately at high speed.
③ In [B], even though "The Knowledge" test, required for London cab drivers, involves memorizing over 20,000 streets in the Greater London area, more than half of the applicants pass the test with ease.
④ The passage [B] demonstrates that since the size of brain is the same between London taxi drivers and non-cab drivers, most people have the ability to adapt to comprehensive use of spatial memory within two or three years.
⑤ According to both passages, the structure of the brain changes in response to focused attention and extensive practice in specific tasks, which accounts for the increased hippocampus size of successful London taxi drivers.











20. 주어진 글 다음에 이어질 글의 순서로 가장 적절한 것은? [2.5점]

<표>

(A) Such cases could be examples of weakness of will. That is, the agents may judge or resolve to spend their savings in a certain way for the greatest benefit but then act differently when temptation for immediate pleasure appears.
(B) However, in some cases the agent does not wait for the envisioned occasion but uses their savings prematurely. For example, early in the year an employee might set aside money to buy Christmas presents but then spend it on a summer vacation instead. 
(C) This behavior seems to reveal a preference of a delayed reward over an immediate one: the agent gives up some immediate pleasure in exchange for a future one. Thus the discounted value of the future reward should be greater than the un­discounted value of the present one. 

① (A)-(C)-(B)         ② (B)-(A)-(C)         ③ (B)-(C)-(A) 
④ (C)-(A)-(B)         ⑤ (C)-(B)-(A)




[뒷면 계속]
21. 다음 글의 내용을 아래와 같이 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?  영어과  제 1학기  기말고사 문제지 
<표>

 제 1 학년 전체  2024년 7월 4일  1교시   출제자: 구다혜, 이의리, Natalie Markech, Rose Nelson 인  
 [3.2점]

  “Monumental” is a word that comes very close to expressing the basic characteristic of Egyptian art. Never before and never since has the quality of monumentality been achieved as fully as it was in Egypt. The reason for this is not the external size and massiveness of their works, although the Egyptians admittedly achieved some amazing things in this respect. Many modern structures exceed those of Egypt in terms of purely physical size. But massiveness has nothing to do with monumentality. An Egyptian sculpture no bigger than a person’s hand is more monumental than that gigantic pile of stones that constitutes the war memorial in Leipzig, for instance. Monumentality is not a matter of external weight, but of “inner weight.” This inner weight is the quality which Egyptian art possesses to such a degree that everything in it seems to be made of primeval stone, like a mountain range, even if it is only a few inches across or carved in wood.
󰀻

<표>


<표>













22. 다음 글의 내용을 아래와 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?  영어과  제 1학기  기말고사 문제지 
 제 1 학년 전체  2024년 7월 4일  1교시
 [3.3점]

  As businesses shift some core business activities to digital, such as sales, marketing, or archiving, it is assumed that the impact on the environment will be less negative. However, digital business activities can still threaten the environment. In some cases, the harm of digital businesses can be even more dangerous. A few decades ago, offices used to have much more paper waste since all documents were paper based. When workplaces shifted from paper to digital documents, invoices, and emails, it was a promising step to save trees. However, the cost of the Internet and electricity for the environment was left unnoticed. A recent Wired report declared that most data centers’ energy source is fossil fuels. When we store bigger data on clouds, increased carbon emissions make our green clouds gray. The carbon footprint of an email is smaller than mail sent via a post office, but still, it causes four grams of CO₂, and it can be as much as 50 grams if the attachment is big.
󰀻

<표>


<표>











[다음장 계속]
23. 다음 문장이 들어갈 곳으로 가장 적절한 곳은? [2.7점]

<표>

  If you have ever moved your office or home, you realize how much stuff you really have. It is estimated that we use 20% of what we possess only 80% of the time. So, why do we keep it all? ( ① ) You guessed it — because we think we might need it! ( ② ) As with other important things, letting go of information can be difficult because we are not sure of its value in the future. ( ③ ) Thus, our tendency is to keep it all. ( ④ ) Who has time to sort through everything to find a particular piece of needed information? ( ⑤ ) Thus, one of the first principles to organization is consolidating our information and data to weed out the stuff we don’t need and group the data we do want to keep.
*consolidate 통합 정리하다










24. 다음 글의 주제로 가장 적절한 것은? [3.5점] 
  Regulations to protect the environment and the health of consumers should be maintained. Caution is reasonable. What needs to be rethought, however, is blanket opposition to the very idea of genetically modified organisms(GMOs). With any innovation, risks need to be weighed against possible benefits. Where the benefits are minor, even a small risk may not be justified; where those benefits are great, a more significant risk may well be worth taking. Regulations should, for instance, be sensitive to the difference between releasing a GM crop that is resistant to the herbicide glyphosate (making it easier for farmers to control weeds) and releasing GM crops that can resist drought and are suitable for drought-vulnerable regions of low-income countries. Similarly, a GM crop, such as golden rice, that has the potential to prevent blindness in a half-million children would be worth growing even it does involve some risks. The irony is that glyphosate-vulnerable crops are grown commercially on millions of hectares of land, whereas golden rice (which has not been shown to pose any risk at all to human health or the environment) still cannot be released. In some environmental crisis, blanket opposition to GMOs is like talking a loyalty oath—those who disagree with it are regarded as traitors in league with the evil biotech industry. It is time to move beyond such a narrowly ideological stance. Some GMOs may have a useful role to play in public health, and others in fighting the challenge of growing food in an era of climate change. We should consider the merits of each genetically modified plant on a case-by-case basis.
*herbicide 제초제 
**glyphosate 글리포세이트(제초제의 일종)
***traitors 배신자

① Allowing GMOs in agriculture can facilitate economic progress in developing countries.
② Authorities should impose stricter regulations when allowing certain GMOs in agricultural markets.
③ Weighing the benefits of a particular GMO against its hazards is a critical step in determining if it is permitted.
④ GMOs have been shown to be one of the factors that leads to the global climate catastrophe.
⑤ Collaborating with big industry could pose a big risk to human health and safety.





















[뒷면 계속]
[서답형2 (단답)] Complete the sentences, choosing one of the phrases below. Change the form, if necessary. [8점, 각 2점]

<표>



<표>





[서답형3 (서술)] Read the dialogue below and answer question [A]. Write at least one complete sentence. [4점]

<표>

 
[A] What can you do if you are on the Brazilian side of the Iguazu Falls?

<표>


<표>











[다음장 계속]
[서답형4 (서술)] 다음 글을 읽고, 밑줄 친 부분이 의미하는 바를 <답안>과 같이 정리할 때, 빈칸 안에 들어갈 말을 <조건>에 맞추어 쓰시오. [8점] 
  The world's natural resources are being used at an alarming rate – not only fossil fuels such as coal, oil, and gas, but also water, wood, metals, and minerals. This has many potential consequences for the billions of people who live on Earth. In recent years, both individuals and governments have become more interested in better managing the world's resources. While alternative energy solutions are important, they are not always feasible. An immediate way to improve the situation is to encourage everyone to "reduce, reuse, recycle." The "reduce, reuse, recycle" strategy, at least for the present, seems to be a manageable one that can be practiced by both individuals and organizations. People may be resistant to the idea of changing their ways or increasing the cost of their routines by "going green," but we should do this for the future of the planet.

<표>


<표>





















[서답형5 (단답)] 다음 글을 읽고, 밑줄 친 부분이 의미하는 바를 <답안>과 같이 정리할 때, 빈칸 안에 들어갈 말을 <조건>에 맞추어 쓰시오. [2점]
 At the start of the twentieth century, Louis Sullivan, one of the creators of modern architecture, said that "form follows function." The term "functionalism" is used to describe the idea behind architecture that primarily focuses on the purpose of a building. However, many people disagree with this and feel that beauty is a more important factor in architectural design. Many people believe that architects have a wider responsibility to society than just designing functional buildings. Beautiful, well-constructed buildings are a symbol of a civilized society and they reflect well on a business or the reputation of the owner. Ugly public buildings, however, can project a negative image of the organization. People say that living or working in an ugly place creates a depressing and uninspiring environment. In contrast, an attractive building can make people feel happier and increase their motivation to work.

<표>


<표>



















-THE END-
♥ 1학년 학생들 한 학기동안 수고하였습니다 :) ♥
