2025학년도 1학기 

(   1  )학년  (  공통영어1  )과 중간고사 문제지


◑ 총(  10  )쪽, 선택형( 23 )문항, 서답형(  5  )문항
◑ 서답(서술) 답안 작성 : 별도의 답안지 
◑ 고사반영 비율 : 중간고사(  30  )%, 기말고사(  30  )%,  수행평가(  40  )% 

<표>



<표>



<그림>
 상 산 고 등 학 교 
  
공통영어1과  제 1학기  중간고사 문제지 
 제 1학년 전체 2025년 4월 29일 1교시                                                                 



본 시험문제의 저작권은 상산고등학교에 있습니다. 무단 전송· 복제, 배포 시 저작권법에 의거 처벌될 수 있습니다.[ 전체 10면 중 면 ]

<그림>


[1-2] 다음 글을 읽고, 물음에 답하시오.
  On November 19, 1944, 40 healthy young men, all conscientious objectors—those who refused to serve in the war for religious or moral reasons—entered the Laboratory of Physiological Hygiene at the University of Minnesota. The men had responded to a brochure that asked: “Will You Starve That They Be Better Fed?” World War Ⅱ was coming to a close, and the Allied forces needed to know how to deal with starving people in areas of Europe and Asia ruined by the war. 
  The study took place in three discrete stages. The first, starting in November 1944, was a “standardization” period of 3 months. So they could be observed under non-stressful conditions, the men received a substantial 3,200 calories of food per day. This was followed by a 6-month semi-starvation period, beginning on February 12, 1945, in which they received only 1,800 calories per day. The semi-starvation diet reflected what was available in the war-torn areas of Europe—potatoes, turnips, rutabagas, dark bread, and macaroni. The final 3 months were a nutritional rehabilitation period.
  During the standardization period, the men felt well-fed and full of energy. Many initially volunteered for local charities, participated in music and drama productions, or otherwise contributed to community projects in the area.  As semi-starvation progressed, the men became irritable and intolerant of one another. Many of them kept journals during the experiment, which recorded their feelings and reactions as they happened. One of the men, Carlyle Frederick, later remembered “noticing what’s wrong with everybody else, even your best friend. Little things that wouldn’t bother me before or after would really make me upset.” Another, Marshall Sutton, noted, “We were impatient waiting in line if we had to, and we’d get disturbed with each other’s eating habits at times. We became, in a sense, more introverted, and we had less energy.” The men reported feeling cold much of the time and asked for extra blankets even in the middle of summer. They experienced dizziness, extreme tiredness, muscle soreness, hair loss, reduced coordination, and ringing in their ears. They felt weak mentally as well as physically. Several were forced to quit their university classes because they simply didn’t have the energy or motivation to attend and concentrate. Food became an obsession. 
  The three-month rehabilitation period began at the end of July 1945 and continued until October 20 1945. Many of the men reported that, overall, the rehabilitation period was the hardest of all. Their strength came back only slowly, and many were depressed by this delayed recovery. Their feelings of hunger remained. They continued to be dizzy, confused, and irritable. With the end of the war that summer, the results of the experiment were becoming increasingly relevant. How can the winners of the war best promote the recovery of starving populations in Europe and Asia? As the experiment showed, the answer was far more complex than simply, “Give them food.”

1. 위 내용을 다음과 같이 정리하고자 할 때, 글의 내용과 일치하지 않는 것은? [3.0점]

<표>



2. 윗글의 밑줄 친 the answer was far more complex than simply, “Give them food.”가 의미하는 바로 가장 적절한 것은? [2.2점]
① All starving people need is just more food.
②Speed should be the priority when feeding those without food.
③To support people in need is to motivate them to pursue higher education.
④Recovery for the starving people requires not only food but also means to produce food.
⑤Helping ill-nourished people means giving them psychological aid as well as physical aid.
[3-서답형1] 다음 글을 읽고, 물음에 답하시오.
 (A)
  At lunch time, look around the sprawling Chaparral High School campus in in Scottsdale, Arizona, in the southwestern United States. ⓐ The social geography of the 1,850 students is clearly instituted. The football players and their friends have the center table outdoors. In back of them, other popular students chat cheerfully—one of the attractive gatherings of cheerleaders, lesser jocks, and members of the student government. ⓑ If you qualify for membership under some unwritten clause in the group’s unwritten rulebook—even if no one has ever met you before—you’ve got it made. Lauren, a sophomore cheerleader, notes that “unqualified” students would never dare sit where she’s sitting. “But once you’re in with the girls, everyone is really friendly to you. ⓒ When I made cheerleader, it was like I was just set.” 
  Inside, in the cafeteria, a converse society exists. There are more braces and glasses and hair that doesn’t quite have a shape. These are the skateboarders, the so-called nerds, those who say they are just regular, the freshmen who have not yet found their place. ⓓ They may have lower social status than the sunny groups outside, but they generally feel they have, or eventually will have, a social place they can live with. There are many other lunchtime domains as well. A group of art students eats in the studios, and some band members gather by the music building. ⓔ Dozens of drama students eat in the theater building, where they are joined by some students whose looks or manners deviate from the norm but who find the theater group more tolerant than most.
  Despite all the choices at Chapparal, a few students still have no clique, exclusive social groups. They eat upstairs or alone outside the library, or they just passively wander, their heads low as they pass groups of noisy schoolmates. They are reminders that a U.S. public high school has to admit all kinds of students, but it cannot guarantee them all a place in high-school society.

3. 윗글의 밑줄 친 부분이 의미하는 바로 적절하지 않은 것은? [3.3점]
① ⓐ : The way students are grouped and interact with each other is very structured, like a map of where students sit and whom they socialize with.
② ⓑ : If you somehow fit in or meet certain implicit qualifications, you can become part of the group and are likely to have a successful school life.
③ ⓒ : Once someone becomes part of a popular group like the cheerleaders, he or she would be guaranteed acceptance at the group’s lunch table and become one of the influential.
④ ⓓ : Although the students inside may not be as popular or well-liked as those sitting outside in the sunlight, they believe they have, or will have, their place to belong in the school.
⑤ ⓔ : As the theater group thinks that some students who may look different or behave in non-traditional ways are more welcoming than other social groups, the drama students would accept them.

[서답형1(서술)] 윗글 (A)와 다음 글 (B)의 내용을 종합하여 읽고, 다음 빈 칸 (가),(나)에 들어갈 말을 <조건>에 맞추어 쓰시오. [총 5점, 부분점수 있음]
(B)
  Carol Miller Lieber, a former principal, says many students entering high school already see themselves as losers. Not surprisingly, this affects their perception of the entire school. “In these big high-powered suburban high schools, there’s a very dominant winner culture.” she said. “The winners are a smaller group than we’d like to think, and high school life is very different for those who experience it as the losers. They become part of the invisible middle and suffer in silence, alienated and without any real connection to any adult.” Interviews with Chaparral student confirm what she said: the more popular a student is, the more likely they are to say they love the school and feel connected to at least one teacher. In other words, (가) ___________________________________________.

<표>


<표>

4. 다음 글을 읽고, Chaparral High School에 대해 알맞게 추론한 것은? [3.5점]
  Chaparral is a large, well-regarded high school in an affluent suburb. It is a pleasant place, where parents, teachers, and students take justifiable pride in their facilities, their community, and their achievements. Compared with big-city schools, these schools do not look very diverse. The majority of the students are white, middle class, and dressed in the same few brand names. But the reality is far more complex. Those who run such good suburban schools are well aware that some of the most horrifying school violence has happened at this kind of place, not at tough inner-city high schools.
 They speculate about the reasons for this. The dropout rate in the U.S. has declined sharply since the 1960s, especially in suburban schools. Poor urban schools still lose many of their problem students to the streets. Suburban schools still have them. “It used to be that the kids who were really having trouble, the misfits, would leave,” said John Kriekard, the principal at Chaparral. But now, “we serve all kinds of kids and we have to try to be all things to all people.”

본 시험문제의 저작권은 상산고등학교에 있습니다. 무단 전송· 복제, 배포 시 저작권법에 의거 처벌될 수 있습니다.[ 전체 10면 중 면 ]
 He and others also emphasize the central role schools play in suburban life. “In big cities, there are lots of places where kids make connections, where they have pieces of their lives,” he said. “But in a place like this, we’re pretty much it.” This maximizes the influence that school society has on a student’s overall life. Adolescence has always been a time of identity formation, with inclusion and exclusion, trying out new ideas, styles, and friends. And these are not primarily girl issues. No matter what your gender, good looks, cool friends, academic achievement, and money have always defined the social terrain.
①Compared to schools in large cities, most students at Chaparral come from various racial and cultural backgrounds, and their style and outfits reflect this diversity.
②Chaparral’s case is consistent with the common belief that violence happens in economically disadvantaged or dangerous schools.
③Misfits no longer leave Chaparral High School, an indication that the teachers in the school need to take care of various needs of the broad range of students.
④Chaparral students are likely to develop their identities, whether through friendships, activities, or experiences, outside the school.
⑤In this high school, academic achievements determine the social status of the students, regardless of gender, physical appearance and social connections.
5. 다음 글의 주제로 가장 적절한 것은? [2.6점]
  A few troubled students would continually disrupt the whole school unless someone—if not the principal, then the law—intervened. These students are likely to be rootless and poorly directed, and their chances of finding effective control at home are slim. Economic factors are less important than family factors and previous social experience. Such behavior is a call for help, not for material goods. To a teenager who has little experience with acceptance and security, these advantages seem to be given arbitrarily to some people and not to others, certainly not to them. 

① Losers are dominated by the winners in school.
② Adolescents’ identities have been shaped by their peers.
③The chances of predicting popularity in schools are slim.
④Economic factors contribute to the teenagers’ self-perception.
⑤A school crisis reflects previous experience of marginalization.




6. 다음 글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은? [2.5점]
  Most magazines, television stations, and other media outlets employ fact-checkers or “researchers” of some type so they avoid trouble. Fact-checkers are usually young, relatively inexperienced members of the editorial staff. When a report, script, article, or manuscript is being prepared, the fact-checkers are assigned to make sure everything is right. They check the spelling of names, the accuracy of numbers, the sequence of events, and the sources of quotations. Their tools are Internet search engines, dictionaries, history books, telephones, and public records of every sort. No questionable item can be ignored. If they don't know whether something is correct, they have to find out.

①Editorial Timelines: How Media Outlets Operate Differently
②Unfair Situations: How Inexperience Affects Fact-Checkers
③Keeping Journalism Accurate: The Work of Fact-Checkers
④Error-Free News Reporting: The Challenge of Time Constraints
⑤Publication Quality: How Extended Fact-Checking Makes a Difference


7. 다음 글의 내용을 다음과 같이 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은? [2.4점]
  The fact that everything turned out to be a mistake did not provide any comfort to the Vorick family, who lived in southern California in the United States of America. On a cable television channel in 2005, a news commentator stated that the owner of a grocery store in the Los Angeles area was a terrorist and that he resided at a certain address in the town of La Habra. The Vorick family owned the address in question. Day and night, people drove by their house and shouted rude comments. Someone, apparently not the best speller in town, spray-painted “Terrist” on their property. Unknown visitors came up, took photographs of the house, and then drove away in silence, which caused the family's sense of privacy to disappear. The accused "terrorist" had previously lived at the address, but this was before the Voricks purchased it. Furthermore, it's important to note that the man had never faced any criminal charges, including terrorism. The cable network had a lot of apologies to make.

󰀻

<표>


<표>

[8-9] 다음 글을 읽고, 물음에 답하시오.
  The majority of journalists believe that they possess an ethical responsibility to ⓐensure accurate reporting. Sometimes that involves fact-checking, but sometimes it cannot. Daily newspapers do not generally employ separate fact-checkers. Reporters are expected to get the facts right in the copy they submit. A copy editor may occasionally dispute a "fact" that appears to be inaccurate, but newspapers operate under ⓑrigid time constraints. Re-checking most information is usually not possible.
 For media that have deadlines that aren't as short, the story is different. Some magazines are renowned for their ⓒdubious fact-checking process. The New Yorker magazine of the mid-20th century had a reputation for fact-checking excellence. The magazine’s standards declined a bit in the 1970s and 1980s. Then, in the 1990s, managing editor Tina Brown hired appropriate people to rebuild the department's good reputation by putting an ⓓ emphasis on accuracy. According to one rumor, there was an article that said a singer had gestured with both arms. An eager fact-checker called the singer and asked if he, in fact, had two arms. The New Yorker was even ⓔ perceived as the leader in fact-checking by rival magazines. Jobs in the fact-checking department at the magazine became a desirable path to high-level editorial jobs.

8. 윗글의 밑줄 친 부분 중, 문맥상 낱말의 쓰임이 적절하지 않은 것은? [2.5점]
   ① ⓐ     ② ⓑ     ③ ⓒ     ④ ⓓ     ⑤ ⓔ

9. 윗글의 내용과 일치하지 않는 것은? [3.0점]
①Though numerous journalists feel they have a moral duty to guarantee content accuracy, those with tight deadlines cannot always afford to do so.
②Tina Brown was able to maintain the New Yorker's strong fact-checking standards, which had been stable since the mid-20th century.
③This text emphasizes The New Yorker's fact-checking excellence by citing the example of a rumor that an enthusiastic fact-checker contacted a singer to find out whether he truly had two arms.
④Working as a fact-checker at The New Yorker was thought to be helpful for those who wanted to enter high-level editorial careers. 
⑤This text differentiates media outlets with longer deadlines from those with shorter deadlines, emphasizing that fact-checking differs based on the type of media and the time limitations they encounter. 
[서답형2(서술)] 다음 글 (B)는 글 (A)를 작성한 저자의 가상 인터뷰 내용이다. 다음 글을 읽고 글 (B)의 빈칸 (가)와 (나)에 들어갈 말을 아래 <조건>에 맞게 영어로 서술하시오. [5점, 부분점수 있음]

(A)

<표>


(B)

<표>


<표>

<표>
10 다음 밑줄 친 turning people’s lives into numbers is morally   insulating에 해당하는 사례와 근거로 가장 적절한 것은? [3.3점]
  Some researchers view spoken languages as incomplete devices for capturing precise differences. They think numbers represent the most neutral language of description. However, when our language of description is changed to numbers, we do not move toward greater accuracy. Numbers are no more appropriate ‘pictures of the world’ than words, music, or painting. While useful for specific purposes (e.g. census taking, income distribution), they eliminate information of enormous value. For example, the future lives of young students are tied to their scores on national tests. In effect, whether they can continue with their education, where, and at what cost depends importantly on a handful of numbers. These numbers do not account for the quality of schools they have attended, whether they have been tutored, have supportive parents, have test anxiety, and so on. Finally, putting aside the many ways in which statistical results can be manipulated, there are ways in which turning people’s lives into numbers is morally insulating. Statistics on crime, homelessness, or the spread of a disease say nothing of people’s suffering. We read the statistics as reports on events at a distance, thus allowing us to escape without being disturbed. Statistics are human beings with the tears wiped off. Quantify with caution.

① "2 Worlds, One Reality in WWⅡ“
 :The number can’t fully represent the causes, consequences, or unique circumstances surrounding an incident.
② “Only 2 % against the Policy”
 : The percentage may seem low, but the absolute impact may still be serious. "only 2%" of a large population can still mean a lot of people.
③ "The earthquake resulted in 2,000 fatalities."
: Numbers can’t capture personal suffering, fear, or trauma. A statistic like this doesn’t express the pain, confusion, or chaos those individuals experienced.
④ “Vaccination rates dropped by 50%!”
: This might make it sound like public health is in crisis. But without knowing the starting number, percentages can exaggerate small changes.
⑤ “The average household income in the city is $60,000 per year.”
: A few very high-income households can raise the mean, making it appear as if most households earn more than they actually do. Without this context, the number might suggest a level of wealth that is not typical for the majority.
[11-12] 다음 글을 읽고, 물음에 답하시오.
(A)

<표>


(B)

<표>







11. 윗글 (A), (B)의 내용과 일치하지 않는 것은? [3.5점]
①In (A), Piaget compared children‘s understanding of volume to their understanding of morality.
②In (B), Piaget maintained that children should develop cognitively on their own, not by watching others.
③In (B), Piaget placed particular emphasis on the value of peer discussion because it fosters cognitive conflict, which advances kids' cognitive development. 
④Both (A) and (B) will disagree with the idea that children can best learn by passively absorbing information transmitted from adults.
⑤Both (A) and (B) would agree that social interaction with peers is an effective method for children to acquire important concepts.


12. (B)의 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은? [3.4점]
①had an essential function in offering appropriate chances for students to develop their cognition
②provided children with the chance to directly learn from adults in order to enhance their cognition level
③helped children figure out their level of morality by themselves through their innate skills
④suggested an unfavorable method for kids to advance their cognitive abilities
⑤constructed children's personal relationships with peers through explicit transmission of information

















*다음 장 계속



13. 다음 글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은? [2.9점]
  What does it mean for a character to be a hero as opposed to a villain? In artistic and entertainment descriptions, it’s essential for the author to establish a positive relationship between a protagonist and the audience. In order for tragedy or misfortune to draw out an emotional response in viewers, the character must be adjusted so as to be recognizable as either friend or enemy. Whether the portrayal is fictional or documentary, we must feel that the protagonist is someone whose actions benefit us; the protagonist is, or would be, a worthy companion or valued ally. Violent action films are often filled with dozens of incidental deaths of minor characters that draw out little response in the audience. In order to feel strong emotions, the audience must be emotionally invested in a character as either ally or enemy.

①Build Connections Between Characters
②Let Violence Be Intertwined With the Real World
③Bridge the Gap Between Documentary and Fiction
④Depict Characters as Relatable, and Draw Audiences into the Story
⑤Erase Clear Lines Between Friends and Enemies, and Engage the Viewers in the Story

14. 다음 빈 칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은? [2.7점]
  If there is little or no diversity of views, and all scientists see, think, and question the world in a similar way, then they will not, as a community, be as objective as they maintain they are, or at least aspire to be. The solution is that there should be far greater diversity in the practice of science: in gender, ethnicity, and social and cultural backgrounds. Science works because it is carried out by people who pursue their curiosity about the natural world and test their and each other’s ideas from as many varied perspectives and angles as possible. When _______, and if consensus builds up about a particular area of scientific knowledge, then we can have more confidence in its objectivity.

①scientists collaborate rather than compete 
②science is done by a unified group of people
③research is conducted by individuals from diverse groups
④we invest more in thorough verification of the scientific facts
⑤curious people are granted more voices when deciding policies
15. 다음 빈 칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은? [3.1점]
  In the 1950s, the best way to create a "self-driving" car may have been to fasten a block to the accelerator. Yes, the vehicle would have been able to move forward on its own, but it could not slow down, stop, or turn to avoid barriers. Evidently, this is not ideal. But does that mean the entire concept of the self­driving car is not worth pursuing? No, it just shows that we lacked the tools that are available today to enable safe and autonomous car operation at the time. This once-distant dream now appears to be within our reach. It is much the same story in medicine. Two decades ago, we were still taping bricks to accelerators. Due to the lack of advanced technological resources, it was difficult to provide individualized care and a variety of treatments that could meet each patient's unique demands and circumstances. Now, we are approaching the phase where ______________. In fact, many patients are already wearing devices that monitor their conditions in real time, which allows doctors to interact with their patients in a specific, refined, and feedback­driven way that was not even possible a decade ago. 

①we can gain a better understanding of patients as discrete individuals with the help of the appropriate technology
②the driverless vehicle can independently brake, turn to avoid obstacles, and continue moving forward
③self-driving technology can assist doctors in providing the best possible treatment for their patients
④increasing the level of medical technology is challenging as there aren't any more sophisticated instruments available
⑤patients could acquire a better picture of their condition by gathering more specific information about their doctors








*다음 장 계속




16. 다음 글의 밑줄 친 부분 중, 문맥상 낱말의 쓰임이 적절하지 않은 것은? [3.2점]
  People seem to recognize that the arts are cultural activities that ①draw on (or react against) certain cultural traditions, certain shared understanding, and certain values and ideas that are characteristic of the time and place in which the art is created. In the case of science, however, opinions ②differ. Some scientists, like the great biologist J. B. S. Haldane, see science in a similar light ― as a historical activity that occurs in a ③particular time and place, and that needs to be understood within that  context. Others, however, see science as a purely “objective” pursuit, ④uninfluenced by the cultural viewpoint and values of those who create it.  In describing this view of science, philosopher Hugh Lacey speaks of the belief that there is an underlying order of the world which is simply there to be ⑤created ―the world of pure “fact” stripped of any link with value. The aim of science according to this view is to represent this world of pure “fact”, independently of any relationship it might bear contingently to human practices and experiences.


17. 다음 글의 밑줄 친 부분 중, 문맥상 낱말의 쓰임이 적절하지 않은 것은? [3.2점]
  Buying a television is current consumption. Today, it brings us joy, but in the future, it does nothing to ① enhance our financial situation. Yes, spending money on a television keeps workers employed at the television factory. On the other hand, if the same amount of money were invested, it would not only make us ② richer in the long run, but it would also create jobs in other places, such as for scientists in a laboratory or workers on a construction site. Think about college as an example. Sending students to college creates jobs for professors. Using the same money to buy fancy sports cars for high school graduates would create jobs for auto workers. The primary difference between the two situations is that a college education ③ increases a young person's productivity for the rest of his or her life, while a sports vehicle does not. Thus, college tuition is an investment; buying a sports car is a consumption. This difference highlights the ④ long-term benefits of education in fostering a skilled workforce that can adapt to the changing demands of the economy. In the end, giving priority to educational investments over immediate consumption can result in ⑤ reduced economic growth and societal advancements.

18. 주어진 글 다음에 이어질 글의 순서로 가장 적절한 것은? [3.4점]

<표>

(A) This means that the already poor parents must fend for themselves unless they receive remittances, which for unemployed young people are hard to come by.
(B) At the household level, the traditional or close-knit family is likely to disintegrate, especially if more than one child leaves for the city. 
(C) In addition, at the level of the community in rural areas, the loss of entrepreneurial and resourceful young people can result in a generation gap, leaving the community imbalanced demographically.
 * fend: 부양하다 ** remittance: 송금 
*** disintegrate: 해체되다 
**** demographically: 인구학적으로

① (A)-(C)-(B)② (B)-(A)-(C)       ③ (B)-(C)-(A) 
④ (C)-(A)-(B)⑤ (C)-(B)-(A)

19.글의 흐름으로 보아, 주어진 문장이 들어가기에 가장 적절한 곳은? [3.1점]

<표>

  According to Plato, love is good because it is rational, meaning that there are reasons for it. He believed true love is always directed toward true beauty. ( ① ) True beauty is not something you see or feel. Rather, you come to know it exists by doing philosophy - that is, by thinking about it.  ( ② ) Plato argued that perceiving something as beautiful merely represents a partial reflection of true beauty, similar to how a painting or photograph captures only a part of the real thing.  ( ③ ) True beauty, or what Plato refers to as the Form of Beauty, lacks specific color, shape, or size. Instead, it is a conceptual notion, like the number five.(④)The number five can be represented in blue or red ink, in large or small sizes; however, the number itself possesses none of these characteristics. Abstract ideas are objects of thought that have no physical form. Think of the abstract idea of a triangle. ( ⑤ )  Plato thought the same was true of beauty. The Form of Beauty somehow lies within each and every beautiful thing you see.  

20.글의 흐름으로 보아, 주어진 문장이 들어가기에 가장 적절한 곳은?[3.3점]

<표>

  A computational algorithm that takes input data and generates some output from it doesn’t really embody any notion of meaning. Undoubtedly, a computation like this does not usually have as its goal its own survival and well­being. It does not, in general, assign value to the inputs. ( ① ) For instance, compare a computer algorithm to a honeybee's waggle dance, in which a foraging bee communicates with other bees in the hive information about the source of food (such as nectar) it has found. ( ② ) The “dance” ― a series of stylized movements on the comb ― shows the bees how far away the food is and in which direction. ( ③ ) However, this input does not just tell other bees to go out and look for it. ( ④ ) Some of them may choose not to make the journey because they believe it is not worthwhile. ( ⑤ ) The input, such as it is, is processed in the light of the organism’s own internal states and history; there is nothing prescriptive about its effects. 
* forage: 먹이를 찾아다니다 ** comb: 벌집

21. 글의 흐름으로 보아, 주어진 문장이 들어가기에 가장 적절한 곳은?   [3.6점]

<표>

  The revelation that genes and biochemicals drive our feelings may seem mechanical and unsettling to some. But have no fear: Knowing how a car works doesn’t make it any less fun to drive. ( ① ) Learning how emotions work at a molecular level does not rob you of the experiences that they induce; you will still cry when you watch This is Us, still laugh when you watch The Office, still cower in fear when you watch Halloween, and still get angry when you bite into a chocolate chip cookie and realize it’s oatmeal raisin. ( ② ) Demystifying our feelings does not in any way diminish their impact on the human body and our behavior. ( ③ ) After all, emotions are just one input our mind uses to construct a facsimile of the world, and we cannot say that the guidance they offer is always correct. ( ④ ) Acknowledging that emotions are biochemical signals that may be right or wrong should motivate us to look upon these impulses through the lens of reason, rather than being driven purely by thoughtless instincts. ( ⑤ ) And although emotions are important voices in the democracy of the mind, we should not allow any one of them to become a dictator.
*demystify 탈신비화하다; 신비스럽게 여겨졌던 것을 이해하다
**facsimile 팩스; 복사기 ***infallible 오류가 없는, 틀리지 않는
22.밑줄 친 empathy really is a spotlight가 다음 글에서 의미하는 바로 가장 적절한 것은? [3.2점]
  Empathy really is a spotlight. Empathy is particularly insensitive to consequences that apply statistically rather than to specific individuals. Imagine learning that a faulty vaccine has caused Rebecca Smith, an adorable eight-year-old, to get extremely sick. If you watch her suffering and listen to her and her family, the empathy will flow, and you’ll want to act. But suppose that stopping the vaccine program will cause, say, a dozen random children to die. Here your empathy is silent —how can you empathize with a statistical abstraction? To the extent that you can appreciate that it’s better for one specific child to die than for an unknown and imprecise large number of children to die, you are using capacities other than empathy.

① Empathy helps us to treat every single suffering in the world in a fair way.
② Empathy ignores the socioeconomic factors behind a specific case, misguiding us.
③ Empathy directs our focus on a certain case, making us blind to the suffering of the majority.
④ We need more empathy so that it drives people to treat others’ suffering as if it were their own.
⑤Empathy expands our understanding of statistics, increasing the chance for people to act for the better.


23. 다음 글의 밑줄 친 부분 중, 어법상 틀린 것은? [3.1점]
  Start by realising ①that you must look after yourself first, otherwise you’ll be of no use to others. There’s a reason why airlines tell you to fit your own oxygen mask first in case of an emergency. If you’re not okay, you can’t hope to make yourself ②helpful to others. It’s not selfish. It’s essential to look after yourself first. You might start to do that by learning to say ‘no’ to unreasonable requests and demands on your time―and to do it guilt-free. That might take a little practice, especially if you’re someone who’s used to ③saying ‘yes’ to everything that is asked of you. Next time you’re feeling ④overburdened by other people’s demands, don’t feel resentful of them for asking. You’re the one who said ‘yes’ and put yourself in the situation. And you’re the one ⑤of whom can change it by learning to say a guilt-free ‘no’.

[서답형3(단답)] Choose one of the vocabulary words in <보기> below to complete the sentences. [총 10점]

<표>


(1) You’ll have to ____________ if you want your opinion to be heard in the meeting. [2점]

(2) It’s best not to talk about common ___________ topics like politics and religion with people you don’t know, as they tend to create conflict. [2점]

(3) He decided to ____________ his original plan to open a bakery, despite the bad economy. [2점]

(4) Climate change is a(n) ___________ of human action, resulting from years of pollution. [2점]

(5) Calm down and don’t be ___________. You’ll do great on your speaking test! [2점]


[서답형4(서술)] Read the passage below. What does “A little black hole inside of me swallowed my voice” mean in the underlined part? Write down your answer according to <Rules> below. [5점]

<표>



<표>

<표>



[서답형5(서술)] Read the passage below. Why is the ham and pineapple pizza called “the Hawaiian”? Write down your answer according to <Rules> below. [5점]

<표>




<표>



<표>



● 수고하였습니다.


















